Directions: 
1. Obtain data, by race, on HS graduation rate, mean SAT scores, mean AP scores, and percent chronic absenteeism
2. Clean and organize data to only include mean total scores, percentages, and rates
3. Put percentages and rates in decimal format
4. Separate hs grad rate, mean SAT score, mean AP score, and percent chronic absenteeism by state, each state new sheet
5. Set up 3-cluster analysis for above variables by race for each state
6. Create columns for and calculate z scores (using =STANDARDIZE) for hs grad rate, mean SAT score, mean AP score, and percent chronic absenteeism
7. Create theoretical anchors and use vlookup (=VLOOKUP) for race and z scores
8. Calculate minimum distance^2 for each anchor using (=SUMXMY2)
9. Calculate minimum distance^2 for each race using (=MIN)
10. Figure out which race matches with which anchor using (=MATCH) function
11. Sum minimum distance^2 for each race using (=SUM)
12. Using excel solver, perform 3-cluster analysis 


Data Visualization:

1. Sort data by high school graduation rate in descending order
2. Select data from high school graduation rate series and chronicle absence rate series, display them on the same bar graphs
3. Observe if chronicle absence rates are also in descending order
4. Sort data by average SAT scores
5. Select data from average SAT scores and average AP scores in descending order
6. Select data from average SAT scores and average AP scores, plot them on combination graph with average SAT scores display as bar graph and average AP scores as trending data points
7. Show scores on average AP score plot
8. Observe whether average AP scores are also in descending order
9. Cluster Analysis
10. Calculate the mean and standard deviation or all races in each state by MEAN() and STD.DEV()
11. Standardize four attributes using STANDARDIZE() for z-scores
12. Choose Multiracial, African American/Black, Hispanic/Latino as three anchors and use VLOOKUP() to find their z-scores
13. Calculate the distance between each z-score with the corresponding of the anchors, and use MIN() to find the minimum distance, then use MATCH() to find the anchor in which the minimum distance belongs
14. Calculate the sum of minimum distances and use solver to do cluster analysis based on different race categories
